# BIOMD0000000453: MODEL1304020001

## Installation

Download this repository, and install with distutils

`python setup.py install`

Or, install using pip

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/BIOMD0000000453.git`

To install a specific version (in this example, from the 2014-09-16 BioModels release)

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/BIOMD0000000453.git@20140916`


# Model Notes


Bidkhori2012 - EGFR signalling in NSCLC

The paper describes and compares two models on EGFR signalling between normal
and NSCLC cells. Moreover, it is shown that ERK (MAPK), STAT and Akt factor's
activation pattern are different between normal and NSCLA models. This model
corresponds to EGFR signalling in NSCLA cells.

Created by The MathWorks, Inc. SimBiology tool, Version 3.3

This model is described in the article:

[Modeling of tumor progression in NSCLC and intrinsic resistance to TKI in
loss of PTEN expression.](http://identifiers.org/pubmed/23133538)

Bidkhori G, Moeini A, Masoudi-Nejad A

PloS one [2012, 7(10):e48004]

Abstract:

EGFR signaling plays a very important role in NSCLC. It activates Ras/ERK,
PI3K/Akt and STAT activation pathways. These are the main pathways for cell
proliferation and survival. We have developed two mathematical models to
relate to the different EGFR signaling in NSCLC and normal cells in the
presence or absence of EGFR and PTEN mutations. The dynamics of downstream
signaling pathways vary in the disease state and activation of some factors
can be indicative of drug resistance. Our simulation denotes the effect of
EGFR mutations and increased expression of certain factors in NSCLC EGFR
signaling on each of the three pathways where levels of pERK, pSTAT and pAkt
are increased. Over activation of ERK, Akt and STAT3 which are the main cell
proliferation and survival factors act as promoting factors for tumor
progression in NSCLC. In case of loss of PTEN, Akt activity level is
considerably increased. Our simulation results show that in the presence of
erlotinib, downstream factors i.e. pAkt, pSTAT3 and pERK are inhibited.
However, in case of loss of PTEN expression in the presence of erlotinib, pAkt
level would not decrease which demonstrates that these cells are resistant to
erlotinib.

This model is hosted on [BioModels Database](http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/)
and identified by:
[MODEL1304020001](http://identifiers.org/biomodels.db/MODEL1304020001) .

To cite BioModels Database, please use: [BioModels Database: An enhanced,
curated and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic
models](http://identifiers.org/pubmed/20587024) .

To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.


